READMD.md, before:

# Connect Four

![Connect 4](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/51PFqUcGZNL._AC_SY400_.jpg)

Connect Four is a tic tac toe like game played with checkers on a vertical board. Players take turns dropping a red or black checker down one of seven columns. The goal is to connect four checkers of the same color horizontally, vertically or diagonally (see [How to play Connect 4](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Connect-4)).

By the end of tonight our goal is to have a playable command line version of connect four. We have laid out the steps below and you may use the ruby files we have provided as a starter.

If you want to run the game type `ruby connect-four.rb` in the terminal in this directory. (Right now it doesnt do much.)

## Step 1: Make the Board

First off, we will need a Board class. This class will need some kind of data structure to keep track of a playing grid with 7 columns and 6 rows. So your first step will be to create an instance variable to hold this info, and initialize the grid when you make a new instance of the Board class.

## Step 2: Make a print_board method

One thing we will need is a way to print out the current status of the board. There is a lot of ways you might do this. For instance you may want to draw the board using regular ASCII characters, perhaps use Xs and Os for the checkers. Or you might want to try to use the [colorize gem](https://github.com/fazibear/colorize) to create a board with red and black colored pieces.

## Step 3: Make a drop_checker method

The board class will need a method to add a checker to the board. The method should take two arguments, a color (we can use symbols for :red and :black) and a column number.

- This method should put the checker in the first open row from the bottom in that column.
- It should prevent someone from adding a 7th checker to a column since a column only has 6 rows.
- It should probably return a value (perhaps a boolean?), so that the code that calls this method knows whether or not the move was valid.

## Step 4: The Game Class

You almost have a playable game, now we need a game class. When a new game is initialized it will need an instance of the Board class. It will need to set the color of the current player (:black traditionally goes first). We will also need a game loop of some kind. On each turn,

- The loop waits for keyboard input from the player who chooses a column
- Tries to drop a checker into that column
- If the column is invalid (already full), the player can try a different column
- If it's a valid move, the turn is over, the current_player color is flipped and a new turn begins

## Step 5: Win condition

If you manage to get the game loop working, you may want to add a check at the end of each turn to see if the game has been won. To do this, we will want another method on the Board class. For instance, the method could be called game_won? which returns true if there is a line of four connected colors.

You may want to break this step down into several different methods which check for four in a row horizontally, vertically or diagonally.

Commit message:

use tty-table to manage board display and rows array to update table

READMD.md, after:

# Connect Four

![Connect 4](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/51PFqUcGZNL._AC_SY400_.jpg)

Connect Four is a tic tac toe like game played with checkers on a vertical board. Players take turns dropping a red or black checker down one of seven columns. The goal is to connect four checkers of the same color horizontally, vertically or diagonally (see [How to play Connect 4](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Connect-4)).

By the end of tonight our goal is to have a playable command line version of connect four. We have laid out the steps below and you may use the ruby files we have provided as a starter.

If you want to run the game type `ruby connect-four.rb` in the terminal in this directory. (Right now it doesnt do much.)

## Step 1: Make the Board

First off, we will need a Board class. This class will need some kind of data structure to keep track of a playing grid with 7 columns and 6 rows. So your first step will be to create an instance variable to hold this info, and initialize the grid when you make a new instance of the Board class.

## Step 2: Make a print_board method

One thing we will need is a way to print out the current status of the board. There is a lot of ways you might do this. For instance you may want to draw the board using regular ASCII characters, perhaps use Xs and Os for the checkers. Or you might want to try to use the [colorize gem](https://github.com/fazibear/colorize) to create a board with red and black colored pieces.

To manage the board display we have included the [tty-table](https://github.com/piotrmurach/tty-table) gem, please refer to their README for more information.

## Step 3: Make a drop_checker method

The board class will need a method to add a checker to the board. The method should take two arguments, a color (we can use symbols for :red and :black) and a column number.

- This method should put the checker in the first open row from the bottom in that column.
- It should prevent someone from adding a 7th checker to a column since a column only has 6 rows.
- It should probably return a value (perhaps a boolean?), so that the code that calls this method knows whether or not the move was valid.

## Step 4: The Game Class

You almost have a playable game, now we need a game class. When a new game is initialized it will need an instance of the Board class. It will need to set the color of the current player (:black traditionally goes first). We will also need a game loop of some kind. On each turn,

- The loop waits for keyboard input from the player who chooses a column
- Tries to drop a checker into that column
- If the column is invalid (already full), the player can try a different column
- If it's a valid move, the turn is over, the current_player color is flipped and a new turn begins

## Step 5: Win condition

If you manage to get the game loop working, you may want to add a check at the end of each turn to see if the game has been won. To do this, we will want another method on the Board class. For instance, the method could be called game_won? which returns true if there is a line of four connected colors.

You may want to break this step down into several different methods which check for four in a row horizontally, vertically or diagonally.
